# CS201

Hi, this source code compiles into a nice customizeable connect four game. There is a short, quick introduction in the program itself, it then prompts you to enter or exit the program. If you exit its over and you're obviously not a very fun or curious person so that's a shame. If you enter you will be prompted to choose between a new or existing user. If you choose existing user and no users exist you'll be told no users exist and be brought back to choose between new or existing users. You can keep cycling between existing users and being told there are none if you want (I don't know why but it's fairly entertaining, maybe that's just because it was a break from the actual coding when I was doing it). If you select new user you'll be prompted for a username, if you choose to put a space in the username your username will be cut off at the first space so no spaces. If you hit enter without typing anything your get some cool random characters and if your lucky maybe a couple letters too. Just entering in a normal name is the best option in my opinion but hey your the one playing so you do you. The program will greet you and create a users.txt where it will read existing users like yourself from in the future. You have the option of playing single player (computer), two player, or four players(party mode), as well as setting new setting (Options). Single player has three modes, Easy, Medium, and Hard. I make no claims to fame with the AI, easy is completely random, Hard is an algorithm to find the move with the most pieces in a row along with error handling for when the resulting column choice is full, and medium is a random mix between easy and hard. Two player is just like it sounds. Party mode is Four player, there is no three player, my apologizes, feel free to build open the Sourcecode and add your own if you would really like a three player mode that much. Options is probably my favorite part, you can set your own board height, width, and winsize, the defaults are 6, 7, and 4, the classic connect four, but you can set them to (almost) anything you would like. Winsize must be three or greater, I was gonna put in a tic tac toe easter egg for a 3 by 3 board with a winsize of three but I need sleep. Winsize can't be greater than both the height and the width. Height and width can't be less than 4 and can't be less than whatever you have the winsize set to. You can set the colors of player one, two, three, four, and the computer, as well as the text color and the background color. Height and width also can somewhat figure out how large a board your display can support, its not the best but it can figure out a rough estimate based on grabbing your screen size. Options has an exit choice, so does the main menu with the single double multi and options menu. Each game mode and options informs you of your selection, if you exit the main menu the program says goodbye and closes. The program keeps track of the current user and displays it in the top left corner, it also keeps track of that users wins, losses, ties, and games played for the current session. Finally when a game ends a new window pops up to tell you who won, it shouldn't cover the board so you can see how you won our lost. After a game you'll be brought back to the main menu and you'll be ready to get back at it or leave. That's pretty much it it might not seem like it but theres about 2000 lines of code behing this, that's pretty wild, so I hope you enjoy the game, have fun, be safe, don't crash. Escape route is control C, you shouldn't need it ever but if your in a hurry it'll shut the whole thing down where ever you happen to be in it.

sources: Casual Coder of youtube, specifically his video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3YiPdibiQHA
  which shows how to do a menu very easily,
  http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/NCURSES-Programming-HOWTO/
  
Demo Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZRtrVEnX0qY
